PETALING JAYA: In a move to strengthen the local postal and courier industry that is rife with challenges, the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) will not issue any new courier licences for two years.

Additionally, a new action plan will be drafted by the National Postal and Courier Laboratory Laboratory (NPCIL) to propose measures to support the strategic development of the new postal and courier industry.

In a press release yesterday, MCMC said the moratorium was implemented to allow the government, along with postal and courier players, to address the various industry challenges stemming from technological changes and market trends.

This move is in line with the call made last August by the Association of Express Shipping Companies Malaysia (Amec), which comprises 25 major courier companies in Malaysia.

Amec members include Pos Malaysia Bhd , GD Express Sdn Bhd, City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd, among others.





The freezing of new courier licenses will run from Sept 14,2020 until Sept 15,2022, during which new licence applications of all categories to carry out courier services will not be accepted.

“Applications received before the effective date of the moratorium and applications for renewal of existing licences will be processed for approval. As of October, there are 109 multi-category courier service licencees operating in Malaysia, ” said MCMC.

Meanwhile, the process of drafting a new action plan by NPCIL will take three weeks, from Nov 2 to Nov 22, subject to the conditional movement control order (CMCO) by the government.

“NPCIL results are important for this industry, which is at the core of e-commerce activities and digital economic development. The postal and courier industry faces various new challenges triggered by the technological boom, which has resulted in the merger of the logistics sector, e-commerce platform, e-hailing as well as financial transaction systems.

“The last study on the postal and courier industry was conducted in 2009, ” said MCMC.

Amec president Teong Teck Lean, who is also managing director and CEO of GD Express Carrier Bhd, lauded MCMC’s decision to freeze the application of new courier licences.

“This is a good starting point and a positive move for the industry, as MCMC is also involving all stakeholders of the postal and courier industry, (from government agencies, courier service providers to the public), to work together to find the right formula to strengthen the industry.

“By freezing applications, it will be easier to assess the current situation and decide on the necessary conditions to be implemented for the industry to self-regulate, ” said Teong, adding that the ultimate goal was for the postal and courier industry to be sustainable, reliable and efficient and be able to support the growth of e-commerce in Malaysia and the region.

Given the sizeable figure of 109 licence holders, Teong felt that market consolidation could occur naturally, in time to come.

As clearer regulations are outlined and sustainable measures put in place, he said such consolidations could then be carried out in a more professional and orderly manner, resulting in a win-win situation for all stakeholders.Staff of courier service company J&T Express check parcels that are ready for delivery at their warehouse in Seri Rampai April 7, 2020. MCMC said as of October 2020, there are 109 courier service licence holders of various categories which are operating in Malaysia.— Picture by Shafwan Zaidon

Subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest updates on news you need to know.

KUALA LUMPUR, Oct 26 — The Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) today said it has decided to halt issuing new licences for courier services for two years between September 14 this year and September 15, 2022.

MCMC said this decision to impose a moratorium on new courier licences was made with the agreement of the communications and multimedia minister.

“This decision was made through licensing powers under the Postal Services Act 2012 and can be revised at any time as needed,” the MCMC said in a statement today.

During the two-year moratorium, MCMC said it will not accept applications for new licences for all categories for the provision of courier services, but will process those sent in before September 14 as well as renewals for existing licences.

“Applications received before the date the moratorium came into effect and applications for the renewal for existing licences will be processed for approval.

“As of October 2020, there are 109 courier service licence holders of various categories which are operating in Malaysia,” it added.

The MCMC explained that the decision was to allow the government, together with the postal and courier industry, to make new plans to further strengthen the sector that is facing various challenges due to changes in technology and market trends.

“This move is also in line with the official call submitted by the Association of Malaysian Express Couriers (Amec) since last August,” it said, noting that Amec is formed out of the 25 main courier companies in Malaysia including Pos Malaysia Berhad, GD Express Sdn Bhd and City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd.

Noting that the last study on the postal and courier industry was carried out in 2009, MCMC said that the process for drawing up a new action plan would be carried out through the National Postal and Courier Industry Lab that would be held for three weeks from November 2 to November 2020, subject to the conditional movement control order (CMCO) by the government.

The full report with the proposed action plan for the strategic development of the postal and courier industry will be uploaded to MCMC’s website for public reference, once the report is completed, MCMC said.

MCMC said the results of the planned NPCIL will be important for this industry, which it described as the core to e-commerce activities and the development of the digital economy that is facing various new challenges caused by technology advancements which had resulted in the merging of the logistic sector, e-commerce platforms, e-hailing and financial transaction services.Logistics solutions provider, City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd, recently took delivery of a large fleet of new Isuzu trucks. City-Link, one of Isuzu Malaysia Sdn Bhd’s key customers, had purchased the 277 units of various light duty, medium duty and prime mover trucks via Isuzu dealer Jumbo Arena Sdn Bhd.

This is not the first time City-Link has taken delivery of a large fleet of Isuzu trucks, having done so in previous years as well. And with this latest truck delivery, City-Link Express is also the first Malaysian customer of Isuzu’s to own the Isuzu Safety Plus trucks. The safety platform was recently launched by Isuzu Malaysia in early September.

“We are extremely delighted to deliver the new Isuzu trucks to City-Link Express, one of our long-term valued customers in Malaysia. This delivery signifies Isuzu’s commitment in supporting City-Link Express on achieving its business objectives despite the current environment,” said Koji Nakamura, Chief Executive Officer, Isuzu Malaysia.

“Our trucks are built with the Isuzu S.E.E Technology at its core, which represents safety, economy and environment to offer all our customers like City-Link Express the reliability, efficiency and versatility that they demand to help increase their business sustainability and output,” he added.

A portion of the new light duty trucks delivered are equipped with the Isuzu Safety Plus platform. These are equipped with safety features including Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD), Anti-Slip Regulator (ASR) and Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) Airbag.

City-Link Express was founded in 1979 and is Malaysia’s first courier company. Today, it is one of the leading integrated express, last mile delivery companies with a prominent brand foothold. The delivery of the new Isuzu trucks is expected to further strengthen City-Link Express’ existing fleet and also support the growth of its business operations in Malaysia.

“The exponential growth of e-commerce and increased consumer spending online that we have seen in recent years have spurred the demand for courier delivery services,” commented Ronald Tan, Chief Executive Officer, City-Link Express. “City-Link Express has been a trusted courier delivery company for decades and we continue to be fully committed to quality services by ensuring our customers’ goods reach the intended destinations on-time and in good condition,” he added.

To support its growing business volume, City-Link Express requires a fleet of trucks that are reliable, safe and easy-to-maintain. “In our line of business, we need trucks that can go the distance with us, as well as on having attentive and quick-to-respond aftermarket support. These are very important as we are in the business of speed and meeting delivery deadlines safely. We have been using Isuzu trucks for 10 years now and have been very satisfied on all these aspects, thus the decision to procure the additional trucks,” he shared.

Tan also added that Isuzu offers City-Link Express the most cost-effective solutions. Its trucks are fuel-efficient and the cost for parts, services and maintenance are competitively priced, which helps the company reduce its operational costs. Further, the company finds the black box feature useful in tracking its trucks for better efficiency and safety.

”The user-friendliness and drivability of Isuzu trucks make our drivers’ job easier too. This results in less fatigue and downtime, and increased productivity and efficiency. In return, this has helped us in retaining the good drivers we have, as well as in attracting new recruits,” he said.

A vehicle handover ceremony was held recently at Dataran City-Link Express in Jenjarom, Selangor. “We are very honoured to know that City-Link Express has been reaping the benefits of using Isuzu trucks and has expressed great satisfaction with our brand. This handover truly highlights a business relationship built upon Isuzu’s brand promise, product quality and strong aftermarket support. We are highly appreciative of the level of trust City-Link Express continues to give us,” said Koji Nakamura.