COMPETITION in the domestic express courier industry has been heating up, so much so that the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) has taken the move to freeze the issuance of new licences.

Despite the e-commerce boom, many players are losing money, leading to business closures and a drop in the number of licence holders over the last two years.

Amid the competitive environment, GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX) is looking to forge partnerships in regional markets to ensure the sustainability of its business. After investing in Singapore, Indonesia and Vietnam, GDEX is looking at Thailand and the Philippines as potential new markets.

In an interview with The Edge, GDEX founder and group managing director Teong Teck Lean says the group aims to have exposure in all Southeast Asia markets.

“Our ambition is to be in all the markets in this region. We are already in Singapore, where we have our own operations, and in Indonesia, through a partnership with SAP Express. It has about 5,000 employees there and thousands of agents across Indonesia,” he adds.

In October 2018, GDEX acquired a 44.5% stake in PT Satria Antaran Prima Tbk (SAP Express) for IDR92.71 billion (RM25.8 million) cash.

Then, in October 2019, GDEX acquired a 50% stake in Vietnamese courier and logistics service provider Noi Bai Express and Trading Joint Stock Company (Netco) for VND76.73 billion (RM13.85 million).

“This is the way forward for us. In Malaysia, we have partnerships with a lot of home-grown brands, which include warehousing, delivery of the items, managing inventories and collecting the cash,” says Teong.

GDEX also counts international logistics players among its strategic shareholders. In March 2011, Singapore Post Ltd emerged as a substantial shareholder after acquiring 56.84 million shares for RM45.47 million.

In January 2016, Yamato Holdings Co Ltd, Japan’s largest parcel delivery company, subscribed to shares in GDEX via a private placement exercise, investing RM217.3 million.

Yamato subsequently increased its stake in GDEX to 22.8% after acquiring 137.42 million shares at RM1.74 apiece from SingPost in February 2016, as well as from Teong.

Partnering with SingPost and Yamato has provided GDEX with invaluable insights and know-how on how to build a world-class express courier business, and this knowledge is now being transferred to its partners in Indonesia and Vietnam.

“From the strategic partnerships with Yamato and SingPost, we got to understand how they operate and how to give better experiences to our customers. Yamato helps us by marketing our services to its customers in Malaysia and the region,” says Teong.

“Now, we are helping our partner in Vietnam to be more customer-centric in its business approach and to bring in more multinational customers.”

GDEX is in a position to invest in new partnerships in regional markets, given its strong balance sheet. Its gearing ratio stood at 0.06 times as at June 30, 2020, giving it room to gear up.

The group is also in the midst of issuing up to 705.18 million new free warrants (Warrants C). The proposed warrants will be issued on the basis of one warrant for every eight shares held by the shareholders of GDEX. The warrants will have a tenure of seven years from the date of issuance, which will be determined after the proposal is approved by its shareholders.

If all the warrants were to be converted into ordinary shares at an indicative exercise price of 40 sen per warrant, GDEX is expected to raise gross proceeds of between RM281.71 million and RM282.07 million, the group states in the proposal.

The gross proceeds are expected to be utilised for the group’s future working capital requirements and other operating expenses such as maintenance of its fleet of vehicles, warehouse facility and data centre, and back-up system.

Assuming the full exercise of Warrants C, GDEX’s total borrowings will decrease to RM30.48 million from RM40.19 million, giving it a gearing ratio of 0.04 times.

The express courier industry has been suffering from cut-throat competition over the past five years as the boom in the e-commerce and technology sectors attracted new entrants, giving rise to an overcrowded landscape.

The number of licence holders has been declining over the past two years.

MCMC’s statistics show that there were 109 courier services licence holders in 2019, down from 128 in 2017.

Companies that are still operating are seeing their margins squeezed. For example, Pos Malaysia Bhd reported a loss of RM45.7 million for its postal and courier businesses in the first six months of the financial year ending Dec 31, 2020.

While GDEX managed to stay profitable as at financial year ended June 30, 2020 (FY2020), it has suffered margin contraction over the last five years. Its courier services segment margin dropped to 9.78% in FY2020, from 18.84% in FY2016.

Against this backdrop, Teong suggests establishing a forum, consisting of regulators, industry players and consumer associations, to discuss and formulate a way forward for the postal and courier industries.

It should also be a platform for the courier industry to self-regulate, he says.

“I believe this is the right approach, bringing the best brains from the different factions. Whatever they recommend, I hope the industry can support it as this is for the sustainability of the industry,” he adds.

The MCMC has set up a National Postal and Courier Industry Laboratory to draft a new action plan that will support the strategic development aspirations of the postal and courier industry. A report will be published on the recommendations made by the end of the month.

Asked if the freeze on new licences is anti-competitive, Teong disagrees, saying that if the situation were to be left to the market, the industry would collapse and many players will go under.

He points out that the courier industry has grown by leaps and bounds over the years and created many jobs. It is estimated that in 2019, 63,700 people were employed in industry, compared with just 14,300 in 2016.

“If you look at Pos Malaysia, it employs almost 30,000 people. If we assume that each person has three dependants, there are almost 100,000 people who depend on the company for survival.

“Can you imagine, if one big company goes under, what the impact would be? It would be tremendous,” he says.

Not surprisingly, almost everyone in the industry supports the freeze on new licences. More than 90% of the Association of Malaysian Express Carriers (AMEC) back the moratorium, says Teong, the AMEC chairman for a three-year term from 2020 to 2023. Members of the association include City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd, ABX Express (M) Sdn Bhd, Skynet Worldwide (M) Sdn Bhd, Federal Express Services (M) Sdn Bhd, Nationwide Express Courier Services Bhd and Pos Malaysia.THE rapid shift in both consumer behaviour and the digitalisation of businesses has not only spiked demand for delivery services but also nudged the latter to evolve.Courier companies, at least those that are competitive, are fast seeking ways to make their deliveries faster, safer and more reliable. GDEX Bhd lays claim to being one of the first courier companies to tap into the e-commerce boom, way before the current coronavirus pandemic began.It has created myGDEX, an online shipping platform and a cloud-based call centre as well as an interactive voice response (IVR) support system. GDEX had also developed platforms such as deKat, a social commerce supply chain platform for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and a last-mile delivery platform (KITA) targeted at that segment too.GDEX managing director and group CEO Teong Teck Lean (pic below) expects the boom in e-commerce to continue, driven by migration of businesses from offline to online, especially in the business-to-business (B2B) segment. This will continue to be the driver for GDEX’s parcel volume growth, moving forward.“Our digital initiatives will make Gdex more cost-efficient without compromising on service quality. Gdex will come out with more product offerings and expand into new revenue streams, ” he tells StarBizWeek.The new platforms such myGDEX would not only strengthen the group’s operations but will also allow GDEX to tap into the business-to-consumer (B2C) and consumer-to-consumer (C2C) segments, Teong points out.“While the B2B segment is the company’s bread and butter, we foresee B2C and C2C to register higher growth as compared to the B2B segment. “We also plan to grow our warehouse fulfilment business, which offers customised end-to-end solutions. “We will continue to develop new products to cater for new trends, especially in the social commerce space, ” Teong says.In December, GDEX partnered with Tasco Bhd to create a comprehensive logistics service as both companies have different strengths. Both companies have signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding (MoU) to finalise this plan. Tasco will be given the priority to leverage GDEX’s last-mile fulfilment capabilities, while GDEX can tap into Tasco’s international logistics network as well as its local cold supply chain infrastructure and convenience retail logistics network.Interestingly, Tasco, which is a leading cold-chain logistics player, has said that it is ready to support the local distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. When asked if GDEX sees a potential collaboration with Tasco for vaccine logistics, Teong says: “We are open to that if the opportunity arises. With our extensive network and system in place, we believe we can assist the government in distributing the vaccines provided that the packages meet our delivery requirements.” GDEX currently handles the transporting of time-sensitive medical samples for chains of hospitals and clinics.Teong says that for this year, GDEX has allocated between RM20mil and RM30mil to upgrade the facilities at its hubs and for IT development. Both Tasco and GDEX have companies from Japan as their major shareholders. Tasco is a 55.38%-owned subsidiary of Japan’s Yusen Logistics Co Ltd, while Japan-based express delivery giant Yamato Holdings Co Ltd holds a 22.83% stake in GDEX.The collaboration with Tasco could also help GDEX face the massive competition in the delivery segment, which has led to price wars. To date, there are 110 licensed courier companies in the country. However, the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission has recently announced a two-year freeze on the issuance of new courier service licences. GDEX is in a net cash position of close to RM80mil, with almost zero borrowings.For the first quarter ended Sept 30,2020, GDEX posted a 51% rise in net profit to RM7.2mil from RM4.8mil a year earlier due to increasing demand from online business activities. Its logistics and warehousing services also did well. The group also attributed the growth to its operational efficiencies as a result of the digitalisation of internal systems and processes.Teong expects the e-commerce industry to continue growing post-pandemic and that the company’s digital initiatives will make GDEX more cost-efficient without compromising on its service quality. “We aim to become known as a digital company, ” he says.KUALA LUMPUR (Dec 8): GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX) and Tasco Bhd have inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance logistics delivery services between end consumers in Malaysia with domestic and international destinations.

Both parties told Bursa Malaysia that under the MoU, they will develop and organise joint marketing activities utilising the network and capabilities of both entities; build on each other’s strengths and comparative advantages, particularly to advance the development of seamless connectivity between e-commerce platforms and other social commerce platforms with logistics fulfilment services; and enhance knowledge sharing with a view to foster improved coordination and synergies.

The mutual benefits that are expected to accrue from this collaboration include the ability to set industry-leading standards in logistics fulfilment services for both parties’ customers, said the companies.

Tasco is able to leverage GDEX’s last-mile fulfilment capabilities as well as cooperation with its strategic partners, namely Yamato Holdings Co Ltd and Singapore Post Ltd, as well as its presence in Indonesia via PT Satria Antaran Prima Tbk and in Vietnam via Noi Bai Express and Trading Joint Stock Company, while GDEX is able to tap into Tasco’s international logistics network, as well as its local cold supply chain infrastructure as well as convenience retail logistics network, they explained.

Both parties will also benefit from greater e-commerce integration between Tasco’s fulfilment solutions offering “e-Tower” with GDEX’s online shipping platform “myGDEX”, allowing coverage of major e-marketplaces and web stores to be integrated with express courier services.

They added that they will also benefit from greater marketing opportunities for both parties to new and existing multinational businesses through the provision of a wider range of logistics fulfilment services, and facilitate sharing of resources and increase economies of scale.

Both parties opined that the MoU serves as an opportunity for the companies to achieve the shared vision of enhanced and seamless logistics delivery services for customers.

“This collaboration is also expected to open up new areas of cooperation for greater marketing activities and business development, as well as cater for more complex logistics demand for customers who require, for example, inventory management, shorter delivery lead time, e-marketplace management and possibly temperature-controlled shipments,” they said.

In a separate statement, Tasco’s chief executive officer (CEO) Andy Lee said the expansion of last-mile logistics capability in Malaysia through the tie-up with GDEX will be a new growth driver for Tasco.

“We can better synergise our resources, especially in serving the 3,000 petrol kiosks and convenience retail outlets throughout the country, as well as providing a new avenue to market other services of Tasco, such as the cold supply chain logistics services,” he added

GDEX’s CEO and managing director Teong Teck Lean also said, “The team-up with Tasco and to be able to ride on the platform of e-Tower and our digital platform myGDEX, allowing the integration of the upstream and downstream resources along the logistics supply chain will give us the ability to provide a better express delivery experience for our customers.”

GDEX closed 2.5 sen or 5.88% higher at 45 sen, valuing the company at RM2.54 billion. Meanwhile, Tasco closed 35 sen or 14.4% higher at RM2.78, valuing the company at RM556 million.