The viral video showed J&T workers roughly handling parcels in a warehouse in Perak. — Screenshot via Twitter/@ixzulazim

Subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest updates on news you need to know.

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 7 — Local courier company J&T Express today sought to clarify a video recorded by some of its employees on social media, showing their actions that resulted in damaged parcels received by customers.

The company said the issue that caused employees to deliberately mishandle parcels in its sorting warehouse stemmed from a misunderstanding by some workers over bonus payments, and denied that it will deduct the regular wages of staff.

“J&T has given employees year-end bonuses after comprehensive consideration, in accordance with the bonus rules and regulations, and in accordance with the Malaysian Labour Law, full bonuses are paid to employees who have worked for a year. For employees who have worked for less than a year, bonuses are paid according to the length of working time without prejudice.

“Unfortunately, certain employees are not clear about the bonus payment scheme which led to violent sorting of packages on February 4, inciting some employees to make collective disturbances and posting the videos to social media,” the company said in a press statement.

J&T said that the viral video happened at its Perak branch, adding that the incident has been resolved. The management said it is also willing to be inspected by the authorities and undergo supervision.

It said the employees resumed work as usual on February 5 and gave assurances that parcels will be processed and delivered to its customers.

J&T acknowledged some of the complaints made on social media, purportedly by some of its customers who claimed their packages were opened and damaged prior to arrival or that the contents were missing.

The management promised compensation for the damaged goods.

“This is indeed a fault in our management. We have formulated special regulations and management methods for settlement of claims and supervision of similar incidents, and fast settlement of lost packages. We are grateful to the public for their love and support for J&T,” it said.

The company also said that better training will be provided for its staff in dealing with packages.PETALING JAYA: Courier company J&T Express Malaysia has apologised over recent cases which went viral on social media depicting their staff violently tossing packages.

In a statement on Sunday (Feb 7), it said that the management handled the matter immediately and the employees involved had publicly apologised.

"Everyone's opinions and suggestions are truly accepted and adopted by the company.

"J&T has been fully committed to localisation development, continuously improving employee compensation and benefits, and promoting the development of Malaysia's social economy and e-commerce industry.

"We have been committed to building a complete compensation and benefits system to increase employee benefits," it said.

It added that J&T has given employees their year-end bonuses after comprehensive consideration, and in accordance with the Malaysian labour law.

It said that for employees who have worked for less than a year, bonuses are paid according to the length of working time without prejudice.

"Unfortunately, certain employees are not clear about the bonus payment scheme which led to violent sorting of packages on Feb 4, inciting some employees to make collective disturbances, and posting the videos on social media.

"Our Perak state management immediately handled and clarified the incident. On Feb 5, the employees had resumed their normal working status and actively sorted and processed the packages of customers," it said.

It said J&T will not deduct or owe employees a penny of wages, and hereby declare that they are willing to accept the supervision and inspection by the public and institutions.

The company also said due to the rapid increase in package volume during the MCO period, J&T took on more packages from the community during this period.

It added that the company hired more temporary workers and only provided simple training for the temporary workers' SOP.

"This is indeed a fault in our management. We have formulated special regulations and management methods for settlement of claims and supervision of similar incidents, and fast settlement of lost packages.

"We are grateful to the public for their love and support for J&T. We have always spared no effort to improve our services and internal management," it said, adding that reforms were made in the shortest possible time over the past few days, including staff expansion, vehicle expansion and management supervision.

It said that its management goes to the grassroots for training to ensure the quality working behaviour of all employees.

"We will bear all the responsibilities, quickly improve our management and service standards, and provide professional training to our own employees for reliable and efficient express service to the Malaysian users.

"We deeply know that frontline employees are the greatest asset and we would like to thank our frontline employees for their continuous efforts to provide delivery services to the public," it said.Subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest stories and updates.

Malaysian social media was ablaze with videos of protests and rioting happening at J&T Express Malaysia warehouse this weekend.

One clip showed workers throwing parcels while protesting in a warehouse, while another allegedly in a Perak warehouse showed mountains of undelivered parcels and unloaded delivery trucks.

Tahukah kome. tengah kecoh sekarang J&T Perak Hold berang customer. dari info diterima pekerja semua mogok disebabkan masalah Gaji. pic.twitter.com/gwHkFDDFoM — PERAK POWER (@iloveyouIPOH) February 5, 2021

What’s happening?

The issue appears to have arised from a change in the commission system, which allegedly drastically reduced the earnings of a delivery rider.

However, J&T Express has not released an official statement regarding the matter.

According to their website J&T Express prides itself on being at the “core of e-commerce express” with a delivery system based on “top-notch modernised e-technology.”

Their delivery system is currently utilised by Shopee Malaysia, PG Mall, Oppo Malaysia and realme Malaysia.

Staff of courier service company J&T Express check parcels that are ready for delivery at their warehouse in Seri Rampai April 7, 2020.

(Credit: Shafwan Zaidon/Malay Mail)

What can I do about my undelivered parcels?

As many online shoppers now note that their parcels are in limbo, or undelivered, one particularly determined customer outlines how she managed to seek damages for an undelivered parcel via J&T Express.

Facebook user Aida Shuzana explained that once her parcel went missing from the J&T Express Batu Caves warehouse on 4th January, she immediately began making official reports with PDRM, Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) and with J&T Express.

Consumers can complain about online shopping deliveries at the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) website https://aduan.skmm.gov.my/

(Credit: Aida Shuzana/Facebook)

Aida also notes in her experience with J&T Express’ procedure, customers must submit claims 5 days after making a missing parcel report. If the parcel is recovered after the claim is paid, it becomes property of the company.

Instead, she decided to take the matter up to the small claims court. Do note that not all Malaysian courthouses have a small claims division, so it’s best to check before.

According to Aida, she went to Sepang Courthouse and filled in the small claims form obtained from the courthouse’s registration office. Ensure that you have the name, IC number, defendant’s Companies Commission of Malaysia (SSM) registration number and their address.

Hand over the complete form back to the counter for the case to be filed. A RM20 registration fee is required, but only can be paid via credit or debit as cash is not accepted.

The trial will commence in the courthouse within the jurisdiction where the parcel was lost. For Aida, the case will be heard in Selayang Magistrate Court as her parcel went missing in Batu Caves.

The court will then e-mail the Writ of Summons number along with the date and location of the trial. Aida stresses to make sure to post a printed version of the Writ of Summons to the defendant. She used Pos Malaysia’s registered mail service that provides acknowledgement of receipt (AR) to confirm that the defendant has received the documents.

The Writ of Summons.

(Credit: Aida Shuzana/Facebook)

All documents, including a copy of the consignment note, must be kept carefully to be handed in at the trial.

Do take note that the Malaysian small claims court only applies for claims RM5,000 and below. No lawyer is required at the small claims court.

According to Aida, if the claim has been paid by the company, this lawsuit is automatically annulled and the case is closed.

Share your thoughts with us on TRP’s Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.