Subscribe to our new Telegram channel for the latest stories and updates.

Malaysians are disheartened over a recent viral story of a local Posmen who was distraught by his financial situation.

A Facebook user tells the tale of how a Pos Laju delivery rider was allegedly left sitting speechless on their doorstep, in the pouring rain, when he found out he wasn’t going to get his paycheck bonus this year, despite being overworked during the nationwide Movement Control Order (MCO) period.

He said this has never happened before, last year they got at least RM1,000, but this year, nothing. He said work has been piling up, but still no bonus. Via Facebook/Masakan Utara Barat

Sharing the supposed back and forth they had with the man, the user revealed that apparently the Posmen’s was only earning RM1,000 a month and was counting on a bonus to cover all of his family’s financial commitments.

The post then ends with a plea to Pos Malaysia to show a little empathy towards its workers.

The story sparked public outcry over the struggles and strife of our national postal service employees, even spawning an online petition demanding that our mailmen be given their Duit Raya this year.

The online petition on Change.org has collected over 20,000 signatures.

(Credit: Change)

Meanwhile, a report by Malaysiakini revealed that Pos Malaysia might possibly be cutting bonuses for its staff citing financial constraints and cash flow issues.

In its response to the public, Pos Malaysia explained that despite an increase in parcel volume during the lockdown period, the business has been significantly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.

However, the company said that it was doing all it can to protect its employees without resorting to pay cuts and layoffs.

The ones who deliver our mail

With over 200 years worth of history, Malaysia’s national postal service has been around since the ‘1800s and had its start when the British colonized the country.

After Merdeka, the service was absorbed into the government and transformed into the Jabatan Perkhidmatan Pos or the Postal Services Department, which served not only to deliver our mail but also conduct a host of other services like collecting bill payments and issuing licenses.

Posmen from the past.

(Credit: Twitter/Pos Malaysia)

In the ’90s the department was privatized into the Pos Malaysia Bhd that we recognize today, an entity that operates internationally, employs over 20,000 people, and runs a range of other logistical services, businesses, and investments.

Pos Malaysia owns and operates several logistics businesses and other services like Poslaju, the Pos Takaful Agency and others.

(Credit: Pos Malaysia)

But notably, the national postal service has been experiencing financial troubles for quite some time.

Though the company recorded a steady increase in its revenues in 2016, in 2017 it was reported that the company had planned to downsize its workforce, explaining that managing its thousands of staff members were getting difficult.

Then in 2019, the company reported its 5th consecutive quarterly losses for that year, accumulating in a total loss of some RM215 million.

And most recently in February 2020, Pos Malaysia recorded lower revenue of RM1.68 billion for the 9 months within their financial period compared to the RM1.76 billion they made the previous year.

(Credit: The Edge)

Pos Malaysia attributes the company’s financial struggles to its high operation costs besides the decline in traditional mail usage. Because let’s face it, who sends physical letters anymore.

The company also said that nowadays, fewer people would walk-in to post offices to acquire other services that are also part of Pos Malaysia’s revenue stream, like getting their stamps, applying for insurances, and other things.

When was the last time you used a post box or went to the post office?

(Credit: Facebook/Pos Malaysia)

Moreover, the company also relates its problems to a decrease in commercial customers, where companies and businesses are opting for greener, paperless electronic and digital services instead of using regular snail mail. Which considering is not such a bad thing.

All this is coupled with the fact that the company has some intense competition from other large and small courier companies that currently share the market.

Furthermore, according to researchers at AmInvestment Bank, Pos Malaysia also face issues with cost inefficiency resulting from its unionized workforce as well as its inability to maintain its large network of services.

Parcels and pandemics

As an essential service provider, Pos Malaysia has maintained and continued its domestic services across the country through the nationwide MCO.

In fact, the company has been critical during the Covid-19 crisis by keeping up with operations and services like the essential Medicines By Post (UMP) initiative, which delivers medication directly to a patient’s doorsteps.

Your friendly neighborhood Spider-Posmen on duty.

(Credit: Pos Malaysia/Malay Mail)

The company’s group CEO Syed Md Najib Syed Md Noor revealed that Pos Malaysia’s operations have been running around the clock to make deliveries during the MCO.

Syed Md Najib said that demand for parcel deliveries have increased due to the rise in online shopping trends of Malaysians who are stuck at home due to lockdowns.

In fact, other industry players in the logistics business have reportedly seen positive growth since the MCO went into effect, having them take on more deliveries as well as hiring more staff.

Delivery riders are a regular sight in Malaysia now.

(Credit: Twitter/@firdausaizat/Malay Mail)

Moreover, financial experts from RHB research concluded that Pos Malaysia could make a turnaround in 2020 from proposed price increases to its commercial postal service as well as a decline in global oil prices that would bring down its operating costs.

But aside from its financial difficulties, the company has also faced a sort of an image problem with reports of underpaid workers, poor service, plus the recent malware attack that disrupted its operations late last year.

Delivering the future?

Pos Malaysia says it has big plans for improvements in the future.

The company apparently has been investing heavily in transforming and expanding its capabilities into the growing e-commerce market as well as venturing into niche segments by providing logistical services to industries such as oil and gas.

The company even has ambitions to establish its own drone delivery service where packages can be sent easily via unmanned drones.

One of these could be delivering your mail soon.

(Credit: Low Yat)

Being such an important and valuable service to the country, one could only hope to see the nation’s postal service provider, as well as the many diligent men and women working there, make it through the Covid-19 crisis.

Express your thoughts on TRP’s Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.KUALA LUMPUR (Feb 22): Pos Malaysia Bhd posted its largest quarterly net loss of RM232.35 million, as the postal group made whopping one-off provisions of RM181.1 million in the fourth financial quarter ended Dec 31, 2020 (4QFY20).

This is the 10th consecutive loss-making quarter for the postal group.

In a filing exchange, Pos Malaysia noted the one-off impairment provisions included RM123.3 million goodwill impairment, RM41.6 million provision for Mutual Separation Scheme and RM16.2 million in property, plant and equipment impairment.

The group's net loss of RM232.35 million in 4QFY20 was vastly wider compared with RM7.43 million in the preceding quarter.

Meanwhile, its quarterly revenue shrank 12% quarter-on-quarter to RM544.63 million as revenue from mail and international businesses declined.

There is no yearly comparison as Pos Malaysia changed its financial year end to Dec 31 from March 31 in 2020.

For the full financial year ended Dec 31, 2020 (FY20), the group registered a revenue of RM2.33 billion and a net loss of RM308 million, mainly contributed by the revised postage rates for commercial mail implemented in February 2020 and higher parcel volume due to the increase in online shopping throughout the restriction periods in the year.

Commenting on the group's earnings, Pos Malaysia group chief executive officer Syed Md Najib said the company is currently executing its business recovery plan and is confident that the aviation sector will recover if the pandemic could be brought under control this year.

"We will continue our transformation journey to further improve our position in enhancing customer experience; riding on technology and digitalisation while leveraging on the exponential growth of the eCommerce sector," he said in a statement.

Looking ahead, the group highlighted it will continue to rationalise underutilised mail infrastructure in its ongoing efforts to streamline operations and reduce costs.

"In addition, the company is trialing the concept of a fully crowdsourced last-mile delivery model for the courier business, to be replicated in suitable locations across the nation," it said.

The group also said it will seek further regulatory changes through the National Postal and Courier Industry Laboratory and ultimately aid the company in building a sustainable courier sector.

"Pos Logistics, which serves prominent automotive manufacturers, should benefit from the government's extension for sales tax exemption on cars until June 2021.

"The culmination of the group's initiatives, as well as continuous operations' improvement, should result in improved profitability for this upcoming financial year," it said.

Shares of Pos Malaysia closed unchanged at 98.5 sen, valuing the company at RM771 million. The stock has sunk 18.6% since the beginning of the year.Unlocking consumer value through its continuous foray into digitalisation

TO manage the change in trends in terms of consumer’s buying behaviour and to remain competitive, companies need to keep up with the times.

That said, Pos Malaysia’s new digital platform SendParcel by Pos Laju is hoping to achieve two million parcels monthly by 2021.

“Pos Laju SendParcel was launched over a year ago to support the changing trend in customer buying behaviour from physically going to retail stores to buying goods online, ” said Pos Malaysia Group chief executive officer Syed Md Najib.

“Our courier business is a key segment that generates sustainable revenue for Pos Malaysia but the problem then was, we were still conducting business the conventional way by requiring customers to walk in to our Pos Laju outlets, while other businesses were online and required quick turnaround due to the high demand from customers.”

The number of registered users surpassed 86,000 subscribers within a year and from October 2019 to July 2020, Pos Laju SendParcel has successfully shipped more than 3.3 million parcels in total and generated RM21.7mil in revenue.

Pos Malaysia aims to achieve a revenue of RM30mil by the end of this year.

The establishment of the online shipping platform was indeed timely as Pos Malaysia would not have survived the movement control order restrictions during the initial stages of the Covid-19 pandemic.

With a substantial increase in online purchases during that time, Pos Laju SendParcel provided the right platform to deliver customer purchases right to their home addresses.

Syed added that Pos Malaysia went full steam ahead into its digitalisation and transformation plans to unlock value for its customers, tapping into the booming e-commerce market while meeting evolving customer demands.

Embracing digital innovation is also the only way to improve service efficiency and enhance customer experience.

“The rapid adoption of technology has brought about new challenges to our business and Pos Malaysia knew that it must adapt to digitalisation, to remain relevant in the industry and fulfil the changing behaviour of our customers.”

Concurrently, Pos Malaysia saw the arrival of global players with huge fundings and technological capabilities.

Therefore, it was a race against time for Pos Malaysia’s team to face the challenge at hand to bring forward a solid digital proposition into the market.

“We knew that we needed to act fast to avoid being irrelevant in the industry. The pressure was high, but we were confident that the team would be able to create a digital platform that could compete and excel in the market, ” he added.

Try SendParcel today for the ultimate consumer experience.

Pos Laju SendParcel was introduced to the public in August 2019, providing the desired customer convenience, particularly for small and medium enterprises (SMEs).

Apart from 24-hour access and fast order placements, customers are offered best parcel rates, instant pricing quotes, free pick-up service, auto-generated consignment note including ease of shipment reporting and tracking.

In January 2020, Pos Malaysia expanded the service by offering international deliveries to more than 200 countries worldwide, connecting local SMEs and e-commerce businesses with overseas markets.

“By enhancing our reach internationally through Pos Laju SendParcel, Malaysian businesses can connect with international clients and expand their footprint across the globe, while enjoying affordable rates. Pos Malaysia remains committed to providing convenience and opening new frontiers and opportunities for customers, ” Syed said.

As for PosLaju SendParcel offerings, Syed said that Pos Malaysia aims to improve their services even further via constant feedback from users to ensure that Pos Malaysia continues to provide the best customer experience.

To complement the Pos Laju SendParcel service, Pos Malaysia also introduced automation and other digital enhancements to ensure safe and timely deliveries.

To date, Pos Malaysia has 28 distribution centres fitted with semi-automated sorting systems which reduces manual workload and streamline workflow for maximum efficiency. Pos Malaysia will also install four additional distribution centres with the semi-automated sorting systems by end of this year.

Pos Malaysia has seen immediate benefits to its processing capacity and speed where it is now able to process 60% more items – bringing down the total processing time by one to two hours per day – enabling the company to be on track with its aim to process one million parcels daily by the end of 2021.

“We will continue on our investment efforts to exceed customer expectations through a robust and scalable digital platform, ” Syed concluded.

For more information, click here.